README.md, before:

# SupraVerden
Curated lists of international organisations with privileges and immunities.

This repo is in the very early stages.

## Main outputs
* [All bodies](dist/ALL_BODIES.md)
* [Alphabetical list of names of international organisations in English](dist/ENGLISH_A_TO_Z_LIST.md)

## Documentation

* [Criteria for inclusion](docs/CRITERIA_FOR_INCLUSION.md)
* [Research](docs/RESEARCH.md)

## Contributing

We welcome contributions.

## Code of conduct
See [Code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## Copyright and license
Copyright © Confirmordeny 2025–⁠2026 released under a [Creative Commons Attribution Share Alike 4.0 International](LICENSE.md)

The author of this repository respects intellectual property rights. If you believe any content here infringes your copyright, please [raise an issue](https://github.com/confirmordeny/supraverden/issues/new?title=Copyright%20Query) on the repo.

In some cases, it may be possible to make contributions available under other licences. Please get in touch if this is something you would like to explore.

See also the Acknowledgements section below.

## Acknowledgements
We gratefully acknowledge data made publicly available by a number of organisations that has made this repository possible.

Data taken from UK Central Government websites is reproduced under the [Open Government Licence v3](http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/).

This repo include Q codes sourced from [Wikidata](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:Main_Page), which is available under the CC0 Public Domain Dedication license. 

Quotes from FATFA publications are published in this repo under the principles of [fair dealing](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/exceptions-to-copyright#:~:text=%E2%80%98Fair%20dealing%E2%80%99%20is,with%20the%20work%3F) for the UK and [fair use](https://www.copyright.gov/fair-use/) for the USA. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Created by [confirmordeny](https://github.com/confirmordeny)

Commit message:

Add explanation of repository name 'Supraverden'
Added a section explaining the name of the repository 'Supraverden' and its linguistic origins.

README.md, after:

# SupraVerden
Curated lists of international organisations with privileges and immunities.

This repo is in the very early stages.

## Main outputs
* [All bodies](dist/ALL_BODIES.md)
* [Alphabetical list of names of international organisations in English](dist/ENGLISH_A_TO_Z_LIST.md)

## Documentation

* [Criteria for inclusion](docs/CRITERIA_FOR_INCLUSION.md)
* [Research](docs/RESEARCH.md)

## Contributing

We welcome contributions.

## Code of conduct
See [Code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## Copyright and license
Copyright © Confirmordeny 2025–⁠2026 released under a [Creative Commons Attribution Share Alike 4.0 International](LICENSE.md)

The author of this repository respects intellectual property rights. If you believe any content here infringes your copyright, please [raise an issue](https://github.com/confirmordeny/supraverden/issues/new?title=Copyright%20Query) on the repo.

In some cases, it may be possible to make contributions available under other licences. Please get in touch if this is something you would like to explore.

See also the Acknowledgements section below.

## Acknowledgements
We gratefully acknowledge data made publicly available by a number of organisations that has made this repository possible.

Data taken from UK Central Government websites is reproduced under the [Open Government Licence v3](http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/).

This repo include Q codes sourced from [Wikidata](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:Main_Page), which is available under the CC0 Public Domain Dedication license. 

Quotes from FATFA publications are published in this repo under the principles of [fair dealing](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/exceptions-to-copyright#:~:text=%E2%80%98Fair%20dealing%E2%80%99%20is,with%20the%20work%3F) for the UK and [fair use](https://www.copyright.gov/fair-use/) for the USA. 

## The name of the Repo
The name Supraverden was created by mixing European languages:
* [Supra](https://www.websters1913.com/words/Supra) — Latin for above/beyond and used in the [supranational] (https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/supranational) which is used in English, French and German
* [verden](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/verden) — Danish and Norweigan for World

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Created by [confirmordeny](https://github.com/confirmordeny)
