docs/CRITERIA_FOR_INCLUSION.md, before:

# Work in progress

# Introduction
The aim is to create a list of international organisations. For this purpose, we will define an international organisation as a legal person created by legal agreements between countries. To be clear, this should not cover organisations that operate in multiple countries but that are created under and subject to the national law (domestic law) of one country. If, however, an organisation is created under the laws of one country but is recognised as an international organisation in its home country by being afforded special immunities and privileges then it can be included.

An organisation that operates in multiple countries around the world but that is subject to the laws of the countries in which it is based would not be included. For example, World Rugby is the international governing body for rugby union but is subject to the laws of Ireland where it is headquartered in the normal way and so it would not be included. Similarly, companies that trade in multiple countries without any special immunities or privileges would not be included.

With some exceptions, only organisations that are legal persons in their own right are included. This means that in general we will only include organisations that exist legally distinct from their individual members, that can sue and be sued and own property. Sometimes an organisation is set up without legal personality initially but legal personality is granted later to enable the organisation to enter into contracts so that it can employ staff and obtain goods and services from suppliers. Once legal personality is granted the organisation can be included.

# What is meant by a legal agreement?
The legal agreement will typically be a treaty between countries but may be called something else for example a charter, statutes or a headquarters agreement. Agreements that are not legally binding don't count. For example, an organisation or initiative created by a memorandum of understanding or by exchange of letters would not be included. 

# How this differs from other definitions you may come across
Some definitions of international organisation exclude organisations that are not formed by an agreement between three or more countries. In this repo, we will include organisations formed by treaties between exactly two countries (sometimes called bilateral or bipartite treaties).

Some definitions of international organisation exclude 'emanations'. This means that where an international organisation E was created by another international organisation A, then E is not included on the basis that it may be controlled by A and not therefore operating independently. That is not the approach taken in this repo where for example EU Executive Agencies are included. 

# Included
## International courts
Legal personality is less important consideration in the context of courts because of the principle of judicial immunity. In cases where an international court forms part of a larger organisation, we will list it separately. Part of the reason for this is that even where courts do not have legal personality, their rulings are or ought to be independent of other parts of the organisation under the principle of judicial independence.
See also: [The Bangalore Principles of Judicial Conduct](https://www.unodc.org/documents/ji/training/bangaloreprinciples.pdf).

## International parliaments
Legal personality is less important consideration in the context of parliaments because of the privileges and immunities parliaments generally enjoy. In cases where an international parliamentary institution forms part of a larger organisation, we will list it separately.

## European agencies
European agencies have legal personality and are therefore included.
_“A European agency is a legally constituted European public body with its own legal personality. These agencies have been created by the EU with the aim of carrying out a technical, scientific or management mission relating to a specific area. [...] They are also known as decentralised agencies and respond to the desire of the EU to reduce the geographical concentration of EU activity.”_

[Decentralised European agencies](https://learneurope.eu/the-decentralised-european-agencies/)


## EU joint undertakings
EU joint undertakings have legal personality and are therefore included.
_“The joint undertakings shall have legal personality. In each of the Member States, they shall enjoy the most extensive legal capacity accorded to legal persons under the laws of that Member State. They may, in particular, acquire or dispose of movable and immovable property and may be a party to legal proceedings.”_
Article 3(4) of [Council Regulation (EU) 2021/2085](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32021R2085)

## Specialized agencies of the UN
Specialized agencies of the UN have legal personality and are included.
_"The specialized agencies shall possess juridical personality. They shall have the capacity (a) to contract, (b) to acquire and dispose of immovable and movable property, (c) to institute legal proceedings."_
Article II of the [Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies](https://treaties.un.org/doc/Treaties/1949/08/19490816%2010-43%20AM/Ch_III_2p-full%20text.pdf)

## UN statutory bodies
I have included some statutory bodies of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations including regional fisheryb bodies. I understand that these are not legal persons in their own right but they each have their own rules of procedure and vave nation states as members.

# Excluded

## Defunct organisations
Defunct organisations that still exist legally but are thought to be completely inactive are not generally included for practical reasons. The focus is on active entities.

## Treaties not resulting in a new organisation
Often countries enter into formal agreements to co-operate but no new organisation is created. These will not be included. As an example, AUKUS is an alliance between three countries (Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States) but the [AUKUS treaty](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/67504f270b3e68dfc448c85f/TS_92.2024_UK_Australia_USA_Agreement_Exchange_Naval_Nuclear_Propulsion_Information.pdf) does not create a new legal person. 

## Entities established by informal agreements
Organisations that are established through informal agreements such as memoranda of understanding (MOU) are not included. For example, the [Eastern Africa Power Pool](https://eappool.org/) is a regional institution set up through a memorandum of understanding between members (and another between utility operators). MOUs are not legally binding.

# See also
* [Research](RESEARCH.md)
* [Read me](../README.md)

Commit message:

Revise introduction and note on definition changes
Updated the introduction to clarify the aim of the repo and added a note about potential changes to the definition as the project evolves.

docs/CRITERIA_FOR_INCLUSION.md, after:

# Introduction
The aim of this repo is to create a list of international organisations. For this purpose, we will define an international organisation as a legal person created by legal agreements between countries. To be clear, this should not cover organisations that operate in multiple countries but that are created under and subject to the national law (domestic law) of one country. If, however, an organisation is created under the laws of one country but is recognised as an international organisation in its home country by being afforded special immunities and privileges then it can be included.

An organisation that operates in multiple countries around the world but that is subject to the laws of the countries in which it is based would not be included. For example, World Rugby is the international governing body for rugby union but is subject to the laws of Ireland where it is headquartered in the normal way and so it would not be included. Similarly, companies that trade in multiple countries without any special immunities or privileges would not be included.

With some exceptions, only organisations that are legal persons in their own right are included. This means that in general we will only include organisations that exist legally distinct from their individual members, that can sue and be sued and own property. Sometimes an organisation is set up without legal personality initially but legal personality is granted later to enable the organisation to enter into contracts so that it can employ staff and obtain goods and services from suppliers. Once legal personality is granted the organisation can be included.

We may change the definition as the project evolves.

# What is meant by a legal agreement?
The legal agreement will typically be a treaty between countries but may be called something else for example a charter, statutes or a headquarters agreement. Agreements that are not legally binding don't count. For example, an organisation or initiative created by a memorandum of understanding or by exchange of letters would not be included. 

# How this differs from other definitions you may come across
Some definitions of international organisation exclude organisations that are not formed by an agreement between three or more countries. In this repo, we will include organisations formed by treaties between exactly two countries (sometimes called bilateral or bipartite treaties).

Some definitions of international organisation exclude 'emanations'. This means that where an international organisation E was created by another international organisation A, then E is not included on the basis that it may be controlled by A and not therefore operating independently. That is not the approach taken in this repo where for example EU Executive Agencies are included. 

# Included
## International courts
Legal personality is less important consideration in the context of courts because of the principle of judicial immunity. In cases where an international court forms part of a larger organisation, we will list it separately. Part of the reason for this is that even where courts do not have legal personality, their rulings are or ought to be independent of other parts of the organisation under the principle of judicial independence.
See also: [The Bangalore Principles of Judicial Conduct](https://www.unodc.org/documents/ji/training/bangaloreprinciples.pdf).

## International parliaments
Legal personality is less important consideration in the context of parliaments because of the privileges and immunities parliaments generally enjoy. In cases where an international parliamentary institution forms part of a larger organisation, we will list it separately.

## European agencies
European agencies have legal personality and are therefore included.
_“A European agency is a legally constituted European public body with its own legal personality. These agencies have been created by the EU with the aim of carrying out a technical, scientific or management mission relating to a specific area. [...] They are also known as decentralised agencies and respond to the desire of the EU to reduce the geographical concentration of EU activity.”_

[Decentralised European agencies](https://learneurope.eu/the-decentralised-european-agencies/)

## EU joint undertakings
EU joint undertakings have legal personality and are therefore included.
_“The joint undertakings shall have legal personality. In each of the Member States, they shall enjoy the most extensive legal capacity accorded to legal persons under the laws of that Member State. They may, in particular, acquire or dispose of movable and immovable property and may be a party to legal proceedings.”_
Article 3(4) of [Council Regulation (EU) 2021/2085](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32021R2085)

## Specialized agencies of the UN
Specialized agencies of the UN have legal personality and are included.
_"The specialized agencies shall possess juridical personality. They shall have the capacity (a) to contract, (b) to acquire and dispose of immovable and movable property, (c) to institute legal proceedings."_
Article II of the [Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies](https://treaties.un.org/doc/Treaties/1949/08/19490816%2010-43%20AM/Ch_III_2p-full%20text.pdf)

## UN statutory bodies
I have included some statutory bodies of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations including regional fisheryb bodies. I understand that these are not legal persons in their own right but they each have their own rules of procedure and vave nation states as members.

# Excluded

## Defunct organisations
Defunct organisations that still exist legally but are thought to be completely inactive are not generally included for practical reasons. The focus is on active entities.

## Treaties not resulting in a new organisation
Often countries enter into formal agreements to co-operate but no new organisation is created. These will not be included. As an example, AUKUS is an alliance between three countries (Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States) but the [AUKUS treaty](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/67504f270b3e68dfc448c85f/TS_92.2024_UK_Australia_USA_Agreement_Exchange_Naval_Nuclear_Propulsion_Information.pdf) does not create a new legal person. 

## Entities established by informal agreements
Organisations that are established through informal agreements such as memoranda of understanding (MOU) are not included. For example, the [Eastern Africa Power Pool](https://eappool.org/) is a regional institution set up through a memorandum of understanding between members (and another between utility operators). MOUs are not legally binding.

# See also
* [Research](RESEARCH.md)
* [Read me](../README.md)
